index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

# Welcome!

This is the official documentation for [Qodot](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodot-plugin), a Quake-to-Godot plugin created by Shifty and the Godot community.

[Beginner's Guide to Qodot](/docs/beginner's-guide-to-qodot/) should be the first place you look if you're new to the plugin.

## What is Qodot?

Qodot is a powerful and complex tool to convert Quake maps into Godot meshes, collisions, and scenes. You can use map editors like [Trenchbroom](https://trenchbroom.github.io/) as a level design tool for your Godot project, using Qodot to bridge the gap between these two programs.

## How to read this guide

Anything → With → Arrows describes nested, foldable properties or buttons, in either Trenchbroom or Godot.

Examples:
-   File → Save
-   Transform → Position → X
-   Project → Project Settings → Plugins

Any instances of the 🚧 emoji means that this section is not totally researched. You are more than welcome to contribute to [This website's Github page](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io) to fill out these missing details.

Any text with **Note:** indicates "gotcha" scenarios for less-common situations, or to emphasize any details that are too important to skip during the process.

Any text with **Warning:** is here to prevent you from losing a lot of progress or time. This usually indicates pitfalls and quirks that limit the flexibility of Qodot.

## Bug reporting

Please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io/issues/new) if you notice any missing information.

If you are struggling to find certain details, it may still be on the old [Qodot wiki](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodot-plugin/wiki) which is no longer up to date.

The [Trenchbroom Manual](https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/) is the best source of truth for using Trenchbroom.

## Who wrote this?

So hi, I'm [Ember](https://github.com/deertears/). I wrote most of the words on these page, based on my own research and coupled with the work [Shifty](https://github.com/shfty) did for the old Qodot wiki. As a tutor, I really like sharing knowledge with people, and I created this out of my desire to see something more comprehensive for teaching how the plugin works.

As time goes on Shifty and I will have less to claim as our own work, you can check the [the Contributors list](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io/graphs/contributors) to see who else was involved in writing these docs.

I would like to thank everyone reading, and especially everyone who's come to give input and feedback on these docs as they've developed.

## Special Thanks

The Jekyll theme is [Just the Docs](https://github.com/pmarsceill/just-the-docs) made by [pmarsceill](https://github.com/pmarsceill/).

[Shifty](https://github.com/shfty/) for making such a cool plugin that's enabled so many developers to make stand-out games in the indie sphere.

Commit message:

add sunkper model examples to landing page
I felt the landing page needed a hero image. We already use sunkper's work on the readme, but maybe we can include images like these for levels soon.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

# Welcome!

This is the official documentation for [Qodot](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodot-plugin), a Quake-to-Godot plugin created by Shifty and the Godot community.

[Beginner's Guide to Qodot](/docs/beginner's-guide-to-qodot/) should be the first place you look if you're new to the plugin.

## What is Qodot?

Qodot is a powerful and complex tool to convert Quake maps into Godot meshes, collisions, and scenes.

You can use map editors like [Trenchbroom](https://trenchbroom.github.io/) as a level design tool for your Godot projects. Qodot works as the bridge between Trenchbroom and Godot.

![](/images/sunkper-banner.jpg)
Models and screenshots courtesy of [@Sunkper](https://twitter.com/SunkPer)

## How to read this guide

Text with a **Note:** indicates "gotcha" scenarios for less-common situations, or to emphasize any details that are too important to skip during the process.

Text with a **Warning:** is here to prevent you from losing a lot of progress or time. This usually indicates pitfalls and quirks that limit the flexibility of Qodot.

Text → With → Arrows describes nested, foldable properties or buttons. This can be for either Trenchbroom or Godot.

Examples:
-   File → Save
-   Transform → Position → X
-   Project → Project Settings → Plugins

The 🚧 emoji means that this section is not totally researched or otherwise incomplete. You are more than welcome to contribute to [This website's Github page](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io) to fill out these missing details.

## Bug reporting

Please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io/issues/new) if you notice any missing information.

If you are struggling to find certain details, it may still be on the old [Qodot wiki](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodot-plugin/wiki) which is no longer up to date.

The [Trenchbroom Manual](https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/) is the best source of truth for using Trenchbroom.

## Who wrote this?

So hi, I'm [Ember](https://github.com/deertears/). I wrote most of the words on these page, based on my own research and coupled with the work [Shifty](https://github.com/shfty) did for the old Qodot wiki. As a tutor, I really like sharing knowledge with people, and I created this out of my desire to see something more comprehensive for teaching how the plugin works.

As time goes on Shifty and I will have less to claim as our own work, you can check the [the Contributors list](https://github.com/QodotPlugin/qodotplugin.github.io/graphs/contributors) to see who else was involved in writing these docs.

I would like to thank everyone reading, and especially everyone who's come to give input and feedback on these docs as they've developed.

## Special Thanks

The Jekyll theme is [Just the Docs](https://github.com/pmarsceill/just-the-docs) made by [pmarsceill](https://github.com/pmarsceill/).

[Shifty](https://github.com/shfty/) for making such a cool plugin that's enabled so many developers to make stand-out games in the indie sphere.
