docs/additional-resources.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Additional Resources
nav_order: 11
---

# Additional Resources

Here's a list of learning resources and assets for you to use in your Godot games.

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Learning Resources

There are an amazing handful of resources on how use Trenchbroom and Godot. Here are only a few of them:

## Community Forums and Discords

If you need help during any step of the process, you can reach out to these communities to get more info about the corresponding process.

- [Qodot Discord](https://discord.gg/c72WBuG)
- [Quake Mapping Discord (Provides J.A.C.K. and Trenchbroom support)](https://discordapp.com/invite/f5Y99aM)
- [func_messageboard on celephais.net](https://celephais.net/board/)
- [Trenchbroom Discord](https://discord.gg/WGf9uve)

## Trenchbroom Manual

Most quirks, setup, and explanations of Trenchbroom’s features are in text through the Trenchbroom manual:
[https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/](https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/)

## Video Tutorials

[dumptruck_ds's Tutorial Series: Quake Mapping in Trenchbroom ](https://youtu.be/gONePWocbqA?list=PLgDKRPte5Y0AZ_K_PZbWbgBAEt5xf74aE)

[JohnathanLinat's Quake Level Design Starterkit](https://github.com/jonathanlinat/quake-leveldesign-starterkit/releases) exists as a way to help speed up the setup process of the above tutorial series.

## Creating Textures

AmbientCG’s PBR creation process documented in-full: [https://pbr.one/](https://pbr.one/)

Quake Builder's YouTube video on [Creating Quake-like textures with Asesprite](https://youtu.be/S6Eu8Cti9nI).

## Creating Character Controllers

Where to learn to make your own character controller in Godot.

| Name | Link |
| ---- | ---- |
| Shifty's Manifesto | [Markdown Pastebin Link](https://markdownpastebin.com/?id=d9d61e67f9d64db2bd215f165b931449) |
| Nvidea Gameworks on Stair-Stepping | [Nvidea Gameworks Docs](https://docs.nvidia.com/gameworks/content/gameworkslibrary/physx/guide/Manual/CharacterControllers.html) |

## Level Design

Quake Builder's YouTube Videos on:
- [Layout theory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4tWWiuaF7g)
- [Designing multiple difficulties](https://youtu.be/s9bleQCTdTo).

Chubzdoomer's YouTube video on [John Romero's Level Design Rules in DOOM](https://youtu.be/ptHurafdCoQ).

Following a style: [Archived gamespy text interview with John Romero](http://web.archive.org/web/20111121052306/https://archive.gamespy.com/articles/december03/doom/romero/).

# Free Assets

All asset download sites here are free, or provide free downloads of some sort. Any site that require registration or offer additional resources behind a paywall are noted.

## Free Textures

| Name | License | Link |
| ---- | ------- | ---- |
| Kenney | CC0 | [https://kenney.nl/assets?q=2d](https://kenney.nl/assets?q=2d) |
| Prototype WAD | CC0 | [http://khreathor.xyz/site/prototype/](http://khreathor.xyz/site/prototype/) |
| AmbientCG | Public Domain | [https://ambientcg.com/](https://ambientcg.com/) |
| FreePBR | CC0 | [https://freepbr.com/](https://freepbr.com/) | 
| OpenGameArt | Varies | [https://opengameart.org/textures/all](https://opengameart.org/textures/all) | 
| Polyhaven | CC0 | [https://polyhaven.com/textures](https://polyhaven.com/textures) | 
| JulioVII’s Texture Packs | CC0, some paid | [https://juliovii.itch.io/](https://juliovii.itch.io/) | 
| Sketchup Texture Club | CC0, requires email | [https://www.sketchuptextureclub.com/](https://www.sketchuptextureclub.com/) | 

## Free Character Controllers

| Version | Author | Node Type | Link |
| ------- | ------ | --------- | ---- |
| Godot 3 | fossegutten | KinematicBody | [fossegutten's Simple Q3 Controller on Github](https://github.com/fossegutten/Simple-Q3-Controller) |
| Godot 3 | GarbajYT | KinematicBody | [GarbajYT's Godot Updated FPS Controller on Github](https://github.com/GarbajYT/godot_updated_fps_controller) |

Commit message:

Add QuakeWiki list of compatible editors

docs/additional-resources.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Additional Resources
nav_order: 11
---

# Additional Resources

Here's a list of learning resources and assets for you to use in your Godot games.

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Learning Resources

There are an amazing handful of resources on how use Trenchbroom and Godot. Here are only a few of them:

## Community Forums and Discords

If you need help during any step of the process, you can reach out to these communities to get more info about the corresponding process.

- [Qodot Discord](https://discord.gg/c72WBuG)
- [Quake Mapping Discord (Provides J.A.C.K. and Trenchbroom support)](https://discordapp.com/invite/f5Y99aM)
- [func_messageboard on celephais.net](https://celephais.net/board/)
- [Trenchbroom Discord](https://discord.gg/WGf9uve)

## Trenchbroom Manual

Most quirks, setup, and explanations of Trenchbroom’s features are in text through the Trenchbroom manual:
[https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/](https://trenchbroom.github.io/manual/latest/)

## Other Editors

Technically, other editors can be configured to support user-made game definitions with Qodot.

[QuakeWiki](https://quakewiki.org/wiki/Mapping_tools) provides a list of mapping tools for Quake.

## Video Tutorials

[dumptruck_ds's Tutorial Series: Quake Mapping in Trenchbroom ](https://youtu.be/gONePWocbqA?list=PLgDKRPte5Y0AZ_K_PZbWbgBAEt5xf74aE)

[JohnathanLinat's Quake Level Design Starterkit](https://github.com/jonathanlinat/quake-leveldesign-starterkit/releases) exists as a way to help speed up the setup process of the above tutorial series.

## Creating Textures

AmbientCG’s PBR creation process documented in-full: [https://pbr.one/](https://pbr.one/)

Quake Builder's YouTube video on [Creating Quake-like textures with Asesprite](https://youtu.be/S6Eu8Cti9nI).

## Creating Character Controllers

Where to learn to make your own character controller in Godot.

| Name | Link |
| ---- | ---- |
| Shifty's Manifesto | [Markdown Pastebin Link](https://markdownpastebin.com/?id=d9d61e67f9d64db2bd215f165b931449) |
| Nvidea Gameworks on Stair-Stepping | [Nvidea Gameworks Docs](https://docs.nvidia.com/gameworks/content/gameworkslibrary/physx/guide/Manual/CharacterControllers.html) |

## Level Design

Quake Builder's YouTube Videos on:
- [Layout theory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4tWWiuaF7g)
- [Designing multiple difficulties](https://youtu.be/s9bleQCTdTo).

Chubzdoomer's YouTube video on [John Romero's Level Design Rules in DOOM](https://youtu.be/ptHurafdCoQ).

Following a style: [Archived gamespy text interview with John Romero](http://web.archive.org/web/20111121052306/https://archive.gamespy.com/articles/december03/doom/romero/).

# Free Assets

All asset download sites here are free, or provide free downloads of some sort. Any site that require registration or offer additional resources behind a paywall are noted.

## Free Textures

| Name | License | Link |
| ---- | ------- | ---- |
| Kenney | CC0 | [https://kenney.nl/assets?q=2d](https://kenney.nl/assets?q=2d) |
| Prototype WAD | CC0 | [http://khreathor.xyz/site/prototype/](http://khreathor.xyz/site/prototype/) |
| AmbientCG | Public Domain | [https://ambientcg.com/](https://ambientcg.com/) |
| FreePBR | CC0 | [https://freepbr.com/](https://freepbr.com/) | 
| OpenGameArt | Varies | [https://opengameart.org/textures/all](https://opengameart.org/textures/all) | 
| Polyhaven | CC0 | [https://polyhaven.com/textures](https://polyhaven.com/textures) | 
| JulioVII’s Texture Packs | CC0, some paid | [https://juliovii.itch.io/](https://juliovii.itch.io/) | 
| Sketchup Texture Club | CC0, requires email | [https://www.sketchuptextureclub.com/](https://www.sketchuptextureclub.com/) | 

## Free Character Controllers

| Version | Author | Node Type | Link |
| ------- | ------ | --------- | ---- |
| Godot 3 | fossegutten | KinematicBody | [fossegutten's Simple Q3 Controller on Github](https://github.com/fossegutten/Simple-Q3-Controller) |
| Godot 3 | GarbajYT | KinematicBody | [GarbajYT's Godot Updated FPS Controller on Github](https://github.com/GarbajYT/godot_updated_fps_controller) |
